oh she's tiny she's a lot smaller than
like six kilos
six guys
this is a brush tailed wallaby yeah this
is a brush towel rock wallet
rock wallaby yes and these are
frighteningly rare in the wild right
yes yes frighteningly rare we know
about 20 animals park it was down to
six that we knew of sex
these unusual marsupials sometimes known
as the australian mountain goat
and they're surprisingly short-footed on
even the most extreme rocky ground
the babies or joeys stay in and around
mum's pouch
until they're six months old when a new
baby will make its way
in
[Music]
so phase one is actually to get a little
tiny
tiny little joey out of here out of
pouch into the incubator
[Music]
so this is a very important girl very
important
but hang on what's all this about taking
a perfectly healthy joey
away from a perfectly healthy mum okay
well the reason they're doing this is
because of a quirk
in wallaby reproduction a day after
they've given birth
they get mated again and that gun
that results from that actually is
stored at the top of the
reproductive tract and the moment
either we take the pouching out or it
grows up and
jumps out naturally it activates
and in a month another birth occurs so
it's like a kind of
production line it's so it's a chain
that keeps going round and round
and that's and that's unique to
marsupials
only more supers can do that i'm about
to open up the pouch
and then put my thumb and forefinger
onto the teat wow
there we go so small look at that tiny
baby
looks like a little embryo david it is
it's almost like
look at the tininess of it wow
but the critical thing is that once
you've taken this one out
she can produce another baby in
hopefully in a month
in a month's time okay yeah
you can see how it's just not coming out
that yeah
it's a female great oh excellent
excellent is that good news you need a
female because you can breed from her
well
we've got more males than females if we
keep taking the pouch young out
hopefully she will keep producing
so what are they going to do with this
baby well 600 miles away in adelaide a
different and more common species of
wallaby
is ready and waiting to become her
surrogate mum
now there is a downside to this that the
surrogate's pachyong has to be about the
same
size right age therefore as the donors
but we have to euthanize that one to
make way
for the brush hail okay so in other
words
the more common species is making way
for the critically endangered one
although it's sad to put to sleep a
healthy wallaby joey
these are exactly the sort of hard
choices you have to make
when you're trying to save a seriously
endangered animal
[Music]
you